All right, so what we're going to analyze for your first example and special relativity is the event
of taking a radioactive isotope and witnessing it spontaneously separate into two separate atoms.
Now the one we're focused on is Florian 232, which we have found in nature.
The following is true thorium 232 separates into radium 228 and helium four.
Now, if you're not familiar with this or you're taking chemistry so long ago, you're more of a physics
student.
I prefer physics.
You know, you can learn all chemistry in quantum mechanics, but that's another discussion.
You know, this is the mass numbers.
So this is like the total number of protons and neutrons in your nucleus.
And you know, you're going to have different values for different isotopes.
They're going to behave differently.
But when you look up the masses, which you'll have to do in special relativity, quite often you make
sure you get the correct isotope, the correct mass number right here.
OK, so the statement of the problem, the problem that we're going to look at for verifying everything
we just discussed and the strange idea is in mass energy equivalence.
Also, to take a look at the numbers with a combination of mass is as follows thorium 232, the radioactive
isotope as we just talked about, which spontaneously split into two separate parts.
If the combined kinetic energy of the offspring, the offspring are this guy and this guy is four mega
electron volts.
There's the energy unit we just discussed in the last video.
How much does the rest mass of the parent differ?
OK.
And what we're trying to figure out, ultimately, is how much the mass differs, how much mass got
converted into this kinetic energy that we measured right here.
And this is a measurable entity that we've measured multiple times in a lab, say.
And what we want to do is compare this to actual mass measurements.
Are the atoms now.
Fortunately, in the beginning of this lecture of this video, we ran through the calculation of basically
taking this and analyzing what happens to the energy use and conservation of energy.
So we already have a formula in terms of how much the rest, energy or the mass changes.
What we can do is just pull it straight out.
We found that they changed the mass when we go from here to here, which is the total mass M minus the
mass with the all spring.
This guy and this guy is no different than the some of the kinetic energies over C squared.
So all we need to do is we know what four mega electron volts is.
Plug this guy in and just fire by c squared and you probably think, Well, that's a job that's easy.
Yes, that's easy.
The mega electron, the electron bolt, that unit we spent all that time driving it because it makes
these calculations easy and straightforward, right?
If we had kilograms for mass, we would have to, you know, convert that into all these different units.
And it would it would just be a mess.
It's a nightmare, but you can see how nice and elegant the electron volt is.
Let's chug along and start analyzing conservation of mass using it.
So we plug it in for mega electron volts.
The power by C squared that again, as we talked about, is our new measurement of mass and special
relativity and Sara sort of scribble this guy off here.
What we want to do now.
He convert converted into a unit that we're more familiar with, the kilogram normally want to do this
in a special relativity calculation, but we want to compare the masses.
OK.
So in order to convert this well, we can do is we could take the electron volts mega NIS tenth of up
to the sixth.
We divide by the speed of light squared just three times 10 of eight meters per second squared.
And then we use the conversion factor we established in the last video, which was that there is one
point six percent to the minus 19 joules per one electron volts.
And again, we're trying to get kg mass units, right?
This is a unit of mass.
So we knew the relation between the Joule and the Newton meteorite, right?
One Newton Mir is one Joule one.
Newton is a kilogram transmitter per second squared or mass times acceleration.
That's this guy times another meter.
OK.
So when we take this guy and we cancel all the units, we're left with a kilogram.
And what we find, and this is the remarkable idea which really sheds light on why there is a lot of
confusion about conservation.
A mess is the following the change in mass from going from thorium to 32 or from here to its offspring.
Is a change in mass of seven times 10 to the minus 30 kilograms?
That's a very small measurement.
OK.
And this is why in a macroscopic scale, when we do measurements of mass and the change between two
different states, we don't measure a difference between the policy and the initial state because it's
so small that it goes unnoticed.
So yes.
Well, let's talk about previously, who's right, the chemical engineer or the physicist who's looking
at special relativity.
They are both right.
They're both right.
But one guys is concerned with situations where this may be measurable, and in fact, we can measure
this with very precise measurements.
The other guy is just concerned with using it for doing practical things, the chemical engineer he
wants to produce.
Maybe he wants to produce, I don't know hydrogen for being used in some other commercial area.
So, yes, conservation of mass will hold and a macroscopic scale, but at a microscopic scale.
When we start looking at the energy and hear it in the mass and the the the rest energy, it becomes
quite apparent and we can actually measure it.
So to really show how small this is, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take the mass.
Are the parent the forum 232.
What you could do is you can look up masses in a standard textbook or online or just Google it.
Google has all the answers, right?
Sometimes we can take thorium 230 two and find that its mass in atomic mass units.
That's pretty standard in chemistry is to thirty two point zero three.
You now to convert that, there's a conversion factor.
We know that 1.6 six times 10 to the minus 27 kilograms is composed in one atomic mass unit, so we
can use that conversion and convert it over.
And what we find is that it's like me seven times 10 to the minus 25 kilograms.
But what is important is that this is about one over 10 to the fifth.
This mass, or point zero zero one percent.
The size of the mass of foreign 232, so this difference is so small when compared to the parent that
it's not even a parent.
And that's why it was so difficult to really measure this guy.
I think this spells out the picture pretty clearly.
And that should make you feel much better between the fact that, yes, conservation of mass is not
quite right.
But the difference is so small, and the reason why is because eagles and c squared right?
C squared is frickin huge.
So the change in mass.
If you change just a little bit, that's a big change in energy.
And that's what's really driving this disparity between a smaller Delta M one compared over big.
And so in essence, what I'm just doing here is I'm just saying Delta M over and above the this guy
of the parent, right?
This is no no difference than zero point zero zero one percent very, very small.
Or if we just write it out, clearly, it's one over a tenth, the fifth.
Very, very small.
Now.
Normally, we are not given the kinetic energy.
Right here that measured we're giving it in the province statement, and we would have to take the actual
mass of this guy, this guy and this guy, which are precise measurements and use that to figure out
how the energy changes or how we can calculate the the kinetic energy.
And then maybe that can be used to determine the momentum.
What we're going to find in subsequent videos is that momentum and energy are usually paired up.
But what I want you to get out of this video is.
Conservation of us, we can't use that in special relativity because it's not going to hold.
We're concerned about, you know, these units electron volts per square.
And if we just assume conservation of mass, which is not true, it's going to throw off all these guys
and we would calculate the wrong kinetic energy.
So what sort of through a calculation using tabulated values, a mask, the way in which we would usually
do it to calculate a kinetic energy and verify that this is indeed correct?
So as I was talking about previously, we can look up all the mass values of the parents and the offspring,
and I've tabulate those values right here for the particular isotopes.
Make sure you get the mass number correct when you look it up if you want to practice this.
You can look this up on Google.
Look it up in our book.
Maybe you have a textbook on this, but I tabulated this.
These guys and what we want to do is basically Delta Em write.
We write it out here the mass of the parent, minus the mass of the offspring.
That's the delta.
So if we add the offspring, this guy in the sky.
We get the following that's two thirty two point zero three four.
We see that even in the tarmac mash units, there's a difference between thorium and the products the
offspring.
It's a difference of point zero zero four.
Can you see that between these guys?
So if we take that difference here, point zero zero for you and we use that conversion I talked about
previously, we get about.
Seven times 10 to the minus 30 kilograms.
Which?
Agrees with our value right here, these guys are the same.
All right.
So this is how you would normally do the calculation and in special relativity, what you're going to
find is that usually you're going to have a lot of chemistry and physics ideas pairing up because we're
going to need to know the mass of the different atoms.
And we're working on a microscopic scale when we build energy.
But if you can compare the mass.
Well, it's very easy to measure, much more more easy than, you know, the kinetic energy and so on
and so forth.
What we can measure, the mass have nice tabulate values, and you can figure out any kind of event
that takes place any kind of radioactive event.
Nuclear fission fusion.
Take the products and subtract the parents of the masses, and you can figure out how much energy was
released.
OK, so.
That's the video, I hope you got a lot of that, what we learned is that conservation of mass.
It's true in certain situations, loosely, but ultimately there is no conservation of mass.
Mass can freely move between being mass gravitational mass or being expressed as energy.
Right.
Mass energy equivalence.
And in future.
Problems and lectures and courses.
What are you going to find is that?
We're going to have to pay attention, mostly to conservation and energy conservation of momentum.
And that's really going to drive our analysis in the future.
All right.
Stay tuned for future lessons.